to the Middle East now where US
Secretary of State Anthony blinken is
holding a day of talks with top
officials in Israel as he seeks a
ceasefire agreement for Gaza it's the
latest stop on his diplomatic Dash to
the region which has included meetings
with qari and Egyption officials who
broken the current draft deal Hamas has
responded positively to the plan
mediators are cautiously optimistic that
Israel can still reach an agreement with
Hamas which carried out the October 7th
Terror
attack well the exact details of the
proposal aren't clear but according to
Media reports here's what the framework
deal mediated by the US Qatar and others
looks like so it would be broken down
into three phases that would see an
initial six- week pause in fighting an
exchange of hostages for Palestinian
prisoners and an increase in Aid
deliveries to Gaza and if all of those
steps prove successful they could then
set the stage for negotiation about a
permanent ceasefire meanwhile in the
last few hours we've learned details of
hamas's counterproposal are submitted
shortly before Anthony blinkin touched
down and that's raising questions about
the potential outcome of
negotiations so let's uh see if Rebecca
ritters in Jerusalem can shed some light
on this welcome Rebecca what are you
hearing about this Hamas counter
proposal well Phil as you say details
aren't 100% clear the Hamas proposal
hasn't been made public but from the
reports that we're hearing uh as you
mentioned it was the the original
framework set out in Paris a little over
a week ago was received positively by
Hamas but that they have offered a
counter proposal they want to see 45
days uh of ceasefire in a first phase
and that would see the release of the
women children basically uh all of the
civilians left in in Gaza to be released
in exchange for a yet undetermined
number of Palestinian prisoners and as
well as you mentioned uh a great deal of
Aid to be brought into Gaza Strip uh in
a second phase if that all goes to plan
a second phase would' see the remaining
living hostages released in exchange for
yet more prisoners and more Aid and then
in a third phase should that uh come to
fruition then we would see the release
of any of the bodies that are currently
in Gaza any of the people were either
taken in uh already have been killed in
Israel and taken across his bodies or
the people that have died subsequently
inside Gaza since they were taken there
on October 7 so that would be a third
phase now uh what they're are suggesting
or what they're um proposing or asking
for is the differences are are small but
they are significant they're asking for
a higher level of prisoner to be
released they want to see some prisoners
who are in Israeli prisons under life
sentences uh to be released now what we
saw in the the deal that happened in no
November where more than 100 hostages
were released we saw only women and
youths released from prison uh so that
is another request that they're asking
and they're also asking for a full
withdrawal of Israeli troops and uh an
end to the war a permanent ceasefire now
those are things that Benjamin Netanyahu
and his far right Coalition have said
that they wouldn't get behind so we are
likely to see now another
counterproposal from Israel and further
negotiations right and and the the
bottom line for for the Israelis is what
what are they looking for in in any
agreement well I think they both sides
want to come away from this looking like
neither have really given many
concessions I think that's uh certainly
clear in what we're seeing and what we
saw in November and again now now the
Israelis uh definitely Under Pressure to
bring home the hostages the families in
Israel of the people still remaining in
Gaza have been protesting have been
putting a lot of pressure on the
government uh for for a limited
ceasefire to to see their loved ones
returned home that is definitely a a
priority or something that the Israeli
government have had to take or are
taking very seriously as they try to uh
quell The Descent that's happening
within the country so that's certainly
uh something that it's a it's a high
price and it's something that they are
willing to of course give some
sacrifices for but they are they have
said they've come out staunchly saying
that they would not agree to a permanent
ceasefire uh nor a full withdrawal of
Israeli troops which is what the Hamas
side are asking for so the in the detail
there you know we still could see
negotiations carrying on for some time
yet thanks for that Rebecca DW
correspondent Rebecca RS in
Jerusalem